in	conj	at
given	for	aero engine
transmitted	to	airframe
multiplied	agent	mass flow
air	of	mass flow
given	by	mass flow
passing	agent	air
air	of	speed
increase	in	speed
approaches	agent	air
approaches	at	flight speed
flight speed	is_a	vflight
approaches	conj	ejected
ejected	manner	faster
nozzle	adjmod	rear
sound	of	speed
increased	object	speed
sound	of	speed
fixed	at	speed
sound	of	speed
mach	is_a	speed
vjet	of	speed
ejected	at	speed
is	if	given
is	agent	mass flow
is	object	w
given	manner	then
given	by	equation
applies	object_clause	known
known	object	this
choked	cause	applies
known	as	momentum thrust
applies	agent	equation
choked	manner	when
choked	neg	not
applies	conj	is
is	agent	vjet
is	manner	therefore
is	manner	less
less	than	mach
mach	quantity	one
pressure	at	nozzle
there be	for	nozzle
nozzle	adjmod	unchoked
increase	agent	ways
there be	agent	ways
ways	quantity	two
increase	object	thrust
increase	at	flight speed
flight speed	adjmod	given
flight speed	conj	altitude
passing	agent	mass flow W
become	agent	mass flow W
become	manner	larger
become	disj	increased
increased	object	vjet
be	object_clause	have
have	purpose	increase
increase	object	mass flow
have	object	area
area	adjmod	larger
area	adjmod	frontal
be	agent	aero engine
be	manner	bigger
overcoming	object	drag
produce	object	drag
drag	adjmod	more
be	conj	produce
bigger	conj	heavier
makes	on	hand
hand	adjmod	other
makes	agent	vjet
vjet	adjmod	higher
makes	object_clause	noisier
makes	conj	increases
needed	purpose	obtain
obtain	object	thrust
thrust	adjmod	given
aero engine designer	of	task
is	agent	task
is	purpose	obtain
obtain	object	compromise
compromise	between	factors
factors	quantity	two
becomes	cause	fixed
becomes	manner	choked
fixed	object	vjet
fixed	at	mach
mach	quantity	one
fixed	conj	added
added	purpose	calculate
calculate	object	f
added	object	term
term	adjmod	new
term	is_a	pressure thrust
is	agent	equation
added	to	equation
is	conj	is
is	manner	where
pressure	adjmod	static
is	agent	pexit
pressure	adjmod	static
is	conj	pinlet
is	at	engine inlet
is	at	engine inlet
pinlet	at	engine inlet
fixed	agent	vjet
fixed	with	climbing
fixed	at	mach
mach	quantity	one
climbing	agent	aircraft
aircraft	adjmod	new
climbing	after	take-off
change	object_clause	required
required	object	air
climbing	conj	change
required	purpose	provide
provide	object	propulsion
propulsion	for	aero engine
air	of	mass
change	agent	mass
change	neg	not
gain	agent	aero engine
gain	object	energy
gain	through	addition
addition	of	fuel term
allows	agent	pressure thrust
allows	purpose	increased
allows	object_clause	increased
increased	object	thrust
increased	by	raising
raising	object	pexit
achieved	object	this
jet	in	pressure
achieved	through	pressure
pressure	adjmod	higher
pressure	adjmod	total
fixed	object	vjet
increased	by	running
running	manner	hotter
increased	conj	goes
goes	agent	vjet
goes	manner	up
goes	conj	increases
increases	agent	momentum thrust
aero engine	of	task
is	agent	task
task	adjmod	first
is	purpose	accelerate
accelerate	down	runway
task	for	engine
consumed	by	engine
front	of	engine
ingesting	agent	engine
swallows	agent	engine
engine	adjmod	big
air	has_sub_aspect_part	kg
ejects	object	kg
tonne	quantity	1,000
kg	quantity	1,000
swallows	conj	ejects
ejects	agent	tonne
kg	disj	tonne
air	of	tonne
kg	quantity	one
tonne	quantity	one
ejects	manner	second
ejects	during	take-off
ingesting	object_clause	has
has	at	sea level
air	of	metre
has	agent	metre
metre	quantity	one
metre	adjmod	cubic
has	imply	ingesting
kilogram	of	mass
has	object	mass
kilogram	quantity	one
ingesting	manner	so
air	of	metres
ingesting	object	metres
