expansion ratio	adjmod	lower
size piston engine	adjmod	same
sized	advmod	equivalently
time period	adjmod	same
70 time	advmod	more
size	adjmod	same
give	agent	comparison
energy release rate	from	comparison
air	adjmod	more
fuel	adjmod	more
is	manner	lower
be	manner	cheaper
become	manner	larger
area	adjmod	larger
be	manner	bigger
drag	adjmod	more
bigger	conj	heavier
engine	adjmod	noisier
makes	object_clause	noisier
becomes	manner	lighter
engine	possessed_by	Hero
invention	possessed_by	Hero
law	possessed_by	Boyle
law	possessed_by	Charles
Boyle	conj	Charles
law	possessed_by	Newton
equal	conj	opposite
reaction	adjmod	opposite
direction	adjmod	opposite
century ad	adjmod	first
equal	conj	opposite
reaction	adjmod	opposite
expelled	manner	finally
nozzle	adjmod	rear
goes	manner	then
arrive	at	back
admit	over	time period
used	object	third
in	conj	at
nozzle	adjmod	rear
given	manner	then
task	adjmod	first
ejects	manner	second
has	at	sea level
metres	rate	second
stretching	in	front
consumed	in	second
law	adjmod	third
jet engine	adjmod	Most
constant	advmod	almost
varies	agent	ratio
increase	in	relationship
propeller	possessed_by	ship
has	agent	A340
it	refer_link	A340
law	of	motion
It	refer_link	cycle
known	object	cycle
known	as	Brayton cycle
defines	object	volume sequence
stages	consist of	compression
combustion	conj	expansion
stages	consist of	expansion
expansion	conj	exhaust
stages	consist of	exhaust
increase	conj	decrease
that	verb_clause	decrease
shape	of	exhaust
relationship	to	decrease
admit	agent	cycle
used	for	combustion
used	for	combustion
points	in	cycle
gain	through	addition
slows	object_clause	decreased
arrive	manner	so
flowing	manner	when
describes	object_clause	cause
allowed	cause	cause
allowed	manner	when
exhausted	manner	when
choked	manner	when
ingesting	manner	so
acting	on	body
admit	agent	flowpath
cycle	conj	flowpath
accelerate	directional	runway
impart	manner	how
cause	manner	how
forcing	object	fluid
fluid	disj_member	liquid
push	against	air
forced	object	jets
reaction	to	jets
jets	of	water
momentum	of	steam
issuing	agent	steam
burn	object	fuel
is	object	jet
propelling	agent	jet
jet	of	air
propeller	disj	water jet
load	disj_member	water jet
passing	agent	air
tube	with	air
enters	agent	air
compressed	object	air
mixed	with	fuel
expelled	object	combustion gas
passing	agent	gases
pressure	of	gases
expanded	object	combustion gas
arrive	agent	combustion gas
accelerate	object	exhaust jet
air	conj	combustion gas
velocity	of	combustion gas
they	refer_link	gases
velocity	of	air
flowing	agent	gas
flowing	agent	fluid
gas	disj	fluid
flows	agent	gas
flows	agent	fluid
gas	disj	fluid
temperature	of	gas
allowed	object	gas
admit	object	air
burnt	object	fuel
used	object	air
combustion	with	fuel
third	of	oxygen
passing	agent	oxygen
oxygen	in	air
move	object	air
burn	object	fuel
needed	object	materials
used	agent	materials
be	agent	materials
passing	agent	air
mass flow	of	air
speed	of	air
speed	of	sound
mass	of	air
speed	of	sound
speed	of	sound
kg	of	air
tonne	of	air
metre	of	air
metres	of	air
volume	of	air
passes	agent	air
push	through	air
consumed	object	fuel
forcing	in	direction
moves	in	direction
propelling	manner	forward
goes	manner	up
goes	manner	down
accelerate	manner	rearwards
goes	manner	up
turned	manner	downwards
slows	manner	down
exhausted	cause	becomes
consumed	conj	becomes
push	object_clause	operates
state	object_clause	increase
that	verb_clause	increase
flowing	cause	increase
slow	conj	increase
changed	if	increase
states	object_clause	increase
that	verb_clause	increase
cause	agent	increase
cause	object	increase
do	object	work
be	imply	used
multiplied	by	increase
become	disj	increased
have	purpose	increase
makes	conj	increases
allows	object_clause	increased
allows	purpose	increased
increased	by	running
goes	conj	increases
produces	object_clause	weighs
flowing	through	space
flows	through	duct
flowpath	adjmod	large
engines	adjmod	large
engines	adjmod	small
Being	manner	able to
move	manner	able to
is	object	option
is	object	much
lower	advmod	much
70 time	adjmod	much
70 time	adjmod	much
lower	advmod	much
applied	manner	need to
convert	into	something
is	agent	something
be	object	five time
powerful	advmod	twenty time
air	quantity	70 time
fuel	quantity	70 time
energy	quantity	70 time
higher	advmod	23 time
passing	manner	continuously
changing	manner	always
high	advmod	continuously
is	agent	pressure rise
much	advmod	twice
much	compared_to	pressure drop
becomes	agent	difference
jet velocity	adjmod	higher
is	agent	energy release rate
is	manner	higher
ratio	of	energy release rate
give	object	energy release rate
be	manner	higher
Vjet	adjmod	higher
pressure	adjmod	higher
running	manner	hotter
needs	object_clause	be
suggest	object_clause	be
that	verb_clause	be
means	object_clause	be
that	verb_clause	be
direction	quantity	one
push	neg	not
stages	quantity	four
speeds	adjmod	subsonic
changed	neg	not
air	neg	not
third	quantity	one
temperature	adjmod	high
temperature	adjmod	average
speed	of	Vjet
choked	neg	not
is	agent	Vjet
Mach	quantity	one
ways	quantity	two
increased	object	Vjet
makes	agent	Vjet
factors	quantity	two
fixed	object	Vjet
Mach	quantity	one
fixed	agent	Vjet
Mach	quantity	one
change	neg	not
fixed	object	Vjet
goes	agent	Vjet
tonne	quantity	one
kg	quantity	one
metre	quantity	one
kilogram	quantity	one
second	quantity	one
Trent 500	quantity	four
is	neg	not
tonne	quantity	one
provide	neg	not
applies	object	principle
added	to	equation
states	agent	law
describes	agent	law
applied	as	Universal Gas Law
given	by	equation
applies	agent	equation
added	to	equation
is	agent	equation
states	agent	law
is	object	tube
enters	through	intake
expelled	from	nozzle
drives	via	shaft
pass	through	components
passages	through	stator
stator	conj	rotor blade
passages	through	rotor blade
exhausted	from	nozzle
be	agent	core
ejected	from	nozzle
choked	object	nozzle
there be	for	nozzle
becomes	agent	nozzle
jet exit area	of	exhaust nozzle
pressure	at	nozzle exit
is	at	engine inlet
is	at	engine inlet
pinlet	at	engine inlet
pressure	in	jet pipe
diameter	of	intake
there be	for	force
acting	agent	force
reaction	adjmod	equal
reaction	adjmod	equal
garden sprinkler	adjmod	rotating
added	object	heat
showed	object_clause	impart
reaction	adjmod	equal
causing	purpose	revolve
causing	object_clause	revolve
are	conj	burn
burn	purpose	convert
jet	adjmod	moving
compressed	conj	mixed
mixed	conj	heated
heated	conj	expanded
expanded	conj	expelled
expelled	purpose	provide
enters	conj	compressed
shaft	adjmod	connecting
cycle	of	combustion
compression	conj	combustion
stages	consist of	combustion
goes	conj	stays
stays	conj	goes
goes	co-occurrence	expanded
is	imply	arrive
arrive	purpose	accelerate
caused	object	changes
caused	by	changes
caused	co-occurrence	pass
laws	of	flow
flows	if	slow
helps	purpose	explain
gas	adjmod	confined
relationship	adjmod	direct
allowed	purpose	expand
are	agent	power
required	agent	power
needs	purpose	drive
needs	purpose	do
becomes	purpose	produce
suggest	object_clause	burnt
that	verb_clause	burnt
burnt	cause	released
move	conj	burn
needed	purpose	withstand
approaches	conj	ejected
be	object_clause	have
produce	object	drag
be	conj	produce
needed	purpose	obtain
is	purpose	obtain
climbing	conj	change
required	purpose	provide
increased	by	raising
increased	conj	goes
is	purpose	accelerate
swallows	conj	ejects
were	if	extend
is	purpose	make
make	object_clause	lift off
is	conj	passes
going	cause	passes
passes	conj	turned
turned	purpose	create
create	object	lift
tonne	of	lift
has	imply	get
provide	object	lift
lift	adjmod	direct
required	purpose	push
overcoming	object	drag
overcoming	object	drag
drag	conj	drag
equals	object	drag
cruise	with	lift
decreased	by	reducing
is	manner	overall
is	object	example
of	conj	of
needs	manner	therefore
burn	manner	therefore
is	manner	therefore
is	manner	therefore
space	adjmod	convergent
duct	adjmod	divergent
explain	object	shape
stretching	agent	cylinder
were	object	cylinder
states	clause	that
moves	agent	that
push	agent	it
air	behind	it
energy	possessed_by	their
passing	through	it
stays	agent	it
drives	agent	that
drives	object	it
pass	agent	they
state	clause	that
its	refer_link	its
its	refer_link	its
its	refer_link	its
speed	possessed_by	its
pressure	possessed_by	its
speed	possessed_by	its
pressure	possessed_by	its
states	clause	that
show	clause	that
work	possessed_by	its
suggest	clause	that
suggest	clause	that
means	clause	that
be	agent	it
gain	agent	it
extend	agent	it
engines	possessed_by	its
get	agent	it
climb	agent	it
applies	by	forcing
forcing	imply	creating
is	agent	garden sprinkler
rotating	agent	garden sprinkler
forced	through	nozzles
invented	object	It
invented	around	century ad
open	object	temple door
propelling	disj	powering
generator	adjmod	electrical
defines	agent	It
volume sequence	with	stages
goes	manner	First
state	agent	laws
flow	adjmod	compressible
flowing	at	speeds
pressure	adjmod	static
pressure	adjmod	static
helps	agent	This
cause	co-occurrence	happens
changing	imply	applied
applied	object	laws
show	agent	laws
laws	of	thermodynamics
that	verb_clause	are
required	disj	extracted
that	of	compressor entry temperature
suggest	agent	Studies
powerful	compared_to	size piston engine
is	agent	This
admit	agent	This
suggest	agent	This
used	manner	However
used	if	is
give	object_clause	varies
Being	cause	means
is	manner	However
be	agent	Gas temperature
approaches	agent	Air
ejected	manner	faster
given	object	thrust f
applies	object_clause	known
known	object	This
choked	cause	applies
applies	conj	is
is	manner	less
less	than	Mach
nozzle	adjmod	unchoked
increase	agent	ways
there be	agent	ways
become	agent	mass flow W
passing	agent	mass flow W
have	object	area
area	adjmod	frontal
makes	on	hand
hand	adjmod	other
task	of	aero engine designer
compromise	among	factors
becomes	manner	When
fixed	at	Mach
added	object	term
term	adjmod	new
fixed	conj	added
is	conj	is
is	manner	where
pressure	adjmod	static
pressure	adjmod	static
fixed	if	climbing
fixed	at	Mach
climbing	agent	Aircraft
Aircraft	adjmod	new
change	object_clause	required
required	object	Air
provide	object	propulsion
addition	of	fuel term
achieved	object	This
pressure	adjmod	total
ejects	object	kg
tonne	quantity	1,000
kg	quantity	1,000
ejects	agent	tonne
kg	disj	tonne
ingesting	object_clause	has
has	agent	metre
metre	adjmod	cubic
has	imply	ingesting
mass	of	kilogram
ingesting	object	metres
metres	quantity	1,000
metres	adjmod	cubic
stretching	manner	out
extend	for	metres
metres	quantity	200
extend	conj	consumed
task	adjmod	next
weighs	object	tonnes
tonnes	quantity	368
produces	agent	each
produces	object	tonnes
tonnes	quantity	twenty-five
giving	object	output
output	adjmod	total
output	of	tonnes
tonnes	quantity	100
take-off	adjmod	Vertical
going	manner	forwards
has	object_clause	gives
gives	at	takeoff
more	than	tonne
gives	object	tonne
tonne	every	metre
metre	adjmod	square
has	object	metres
metres	quantity	437
metres	adjmod	square
get	manner	airborne
get	conj	climb
provide	conj	required
drag	adjmod	lift-induce
lift-induce	manner	lift-induce
increases	agent	Flight speed
equals	agent	engine thrust
cruise	manner	now
gains	agent	It
gains	co-occurrence	consumed
decreased	manner	Then
decreased	object	engine thrust
slows	conj	descends
descends	conj	lands
is	agent	This
is	object	cruise profile
cruise profile	adjmod	typical
cruise profile	for	airliner
airliner	adjmod	civil
flight speed	is_a	Vflight
is	object	W
calculate	object	F
is	agent	pexit
is	conj	pinlet
raising	object	pexit
liquid	disj	gaseous
fluid	disj_member	gaseous
example	adjmod	simple
example	adjmod	practical
invented	purpose	open
jet engine	adjmod	modern
something	adjmod	useful
something	adjmod	useful
moving	manner	fast
gas turbine	adjmod	simplest
is	manner	essentially
tube	adjmod	open
open	at	ends
combustion	adjmod	continuous
volume sequence	adjmod	varying
stages	adjmod	distinct
stays	manner	constant
is	manner	usually
pressure	adjmod	spare
laws	adjmod	fundamental
pressure	adjmod	constant
applied	manner	together
laws	adjmod	fundamental
pressure ratio	adjmod	given
expansion ratio	adjmod	given
are	manner	proportional
proportional	advmod	directly
becomes	manner	available
gas turbine	adjmod	simple
pressure	adjmod	spare
be	manner	powerful
cycle	adjmod	continuous
flowpath	adjmod	open
combustion	adjmod	complete
energy release rate	adjmod	different
be	manner	powerful
powerful	advmod	very
size	adjmod	given
is	manner	costly
materials	adjmod	expensive
points	adjmod	certain
is	if	given
flight speed	adjmod	given
thrust	adjmod	given
becomes	cause	fixed
becomes	manner	choked
engine	adjmod	big
lift	adjmod	constant
gains	manner	slowly
is	agent	task
climbing	after	take-off
is	agent	task
ejects	unmapped	take-off
is	agent	task
produces	at	take-off
turned	object	take-off
is	agent	take-off
reaction	is_a	thrust
operates	agent	thrust
it	refer_link	thrust
it	refer_link	thrust
provide	object	thrust
changing	agent	pressure
goes	agent	pressure
it	refer_link	pressure
goes	agent	pressure
arrive	with	pressure
accelerate	agent	pressure
changes	in	pressure
changes	in	velocity
increase	agent	speed
decrease	agent	pressure
slow	agent	speed
increase	agent	pressure
changed	object	temperature
increase	agent	pressure
decrease	in	volume
gas	under	pressure
increase	in	temperature
increase	in	volume
changing	agent	pressure
pressure	conj	temperature
changing	agent	temperature
temperature	conj	volume
changing	agent	volume
required	for	pressure ratio
extracted	for	expansion ratio
proportional	to	entry temperature
be	agent	entry temperature
needs	object	expansion ratio
produce	object	thrust
pressure	conj	jet velocity
piston engine	adjmod	sized
piston engine	of	size
varies	with	size
be	for	size
withstand	object	temperature
is	agent	temperature
be	agent	temperature
Gas temperature	conj	pressures
be	agent	pressures
given	object	thrust
transmitted	agent	thrust
increase	in	speed
approaches	at	flight speed
ejected	at	speed
Mach	is_a	speed
increase	object	thrust
increase	at	flight speed
flight speed	conj	altitude
needed	agent	fuel consumption
increases	object	fuel consumption
obtain	object	thrust
is	object	jet exit area
is	object	pressure
is	object	pressure
is	object	pressure
pinlet	object	pressure
change	agent	mass
increased	object	thrust
achieved	through	pressure
fixed	at	speed
increased	object	speed
has	object	mass
were	agent	volume
it	refer_link	volume
cylinder	is_a	diameter
tonnes	of	thrust
tonnes	of	thrust
gains	object	height
example	of	jet propulsion
issuing	from	jets
a number of	quantity	jets
impart	to	jets
given	by	mass flow
multiplied	agent	mass flow
is	agent	mass flow
increase	object	mass flow
reducing	object	fuel flow
there be	agent	reaction
that	refer_clause	reaction
moves	agent	reaction
creating	object	reaction
rotating	in	reaction
impart	agent	momentum
impart	object	reaction
known	as	momentum thrust
term	is_a	pressure thrust
allows	agent	pressure thrust
increases	agent	momentum thrust
that	verb_clause	there be
obtain	object	compromise
convert	object	energy
released	agent	energy
gain	object	energy
showed	agent	invention
applies	agent	jet engine
moves	object	engine
thrust	of	jet engine
operates	on	engine
added	agent	engine
It	refer_link	engine
invented	as	toy
revolve	agent	engine
are	agent	jet engine
which	refer_clause	gas turbine
are	agent	gas turbine
are	object	gas turbine
are	object	heat engine
burn	like	heat engine
their	refer_link	engines
is	for	gas turbine
propelling	object	aircraft
powering	object	turbine
driving	agent	turbine
driving	object	load
load	disj_member	generator
load	disj_member	compressor
generator	disj	compressor
compressor	for	gas pipeline
generator	for	gas pipeline
propeller	for	gas pipeline
water jet	for	gas pipeline
load	disj_member	propeller
compressor	disj	propeller
is	agent	gas turbine
gas turbine	is_a	turbojet
heated	in	combustor
expanded	through	turbine
drives	agent	turbine
drives	object	compressor
it	refer_link	compressor
passing	through	engine
goes	in	compressor
stays	in	combustor
expanded	through	turbine
pressure rise	in	compressor
that	refer_clause	turbine
pressure drop	through	turbine
drives	agent	turbine
back	of	engine
components	of	gas turbine engine
rotor blade	of	compressor
stator	of	compressor
stator	of	turbine
compressor	conj	turbine
happens	in	combustor
combustor	of	gas turbine
changing	in	compressors
compressors	conj	turbines
drive	object	compressor
its	refer_link	turbine
greater	for	gas turbine
run	object	engine
core	of	gas turbine
flowpath	of	gas turbine
cycle	of	gas turbine
air	as	piston engine
released	in	gas turbine
passing	through	gas turbine
higher	than	piston engine
comparison	of	engines
comparison	of	engines
move	through	engine
be	agent	gas turbine
needed	agent	gas turbine
is	agent	gas turbine
combustor	conj	turbine
be	in	piston engine
temperature	in	piston engine
given	for	aero engine
it	refer_link	aero engine
it	refer_link	aero engine
transmitted	to	airframe
passing	through	engine
approaches	object	engine
passing	through	engine
have	agent	engine
propulsion	for	aero engine
change	through	engine
running	object	engine
task	of	aero engine
It	refer_link	aircraft
accelerate	object	aircraft
swallows	agent	engine
engine	like	Trent 500
ingesting	agent	engine
front	of	engine
consumed	by	engine
task	for	engine
lift off	agent	aircraft
its	refer_link	aircraft
weighs	agent	aircraft
each	of	engines
going	agent	aircraft
passes	over	wings
gives	agent	wing
metres	of	wing
required	object	engines
provide	agent	engines
push	object	aircraft
drag	of	airframe
drag	of	airframe
drag	from	wings
drag	from	wings
cruise	agent	aircraft
lift	from	wings
becomes	agent	aircraft
lands	agent	aircraft
slows	agent	aircraft
descends	agent	aircraft
motion	of	law
states	agent	law
newton	has_attribute	law
law	adjmod	third
states	clause	that
that	verb_clause	there be
acting	agent	force
there be	for	force
acting	on	body
there be	agent	reaction
reaction	adjmod	equal
reaction	adjmod	opposite
equal	conj	opposite
slot	part_of	jet engine
fan obj complex	part_of	jet engine
cover	part_of	jet engine
wind	location	jet engine
applies	agent	jet engine
applies	object	principle
applies	by	forcing
forcing	object	fluid
fluid	disj_member	liquid
forcing	in	direction
direction	quantity	one
forcing	imply	creating
moves	agent	reaction
creating	object	reaction
reaction	adjmod	equal
air	behind	thrust
push	agent	thrust
jet engine	of	thrust
operates	agent	thrust
reaction	is_a	thrust
operates	on	engine
moves	object	engine
moves	in	direction
direction	adjmod	opposite
fluid	disj_member	gaseous
liquid	disj	gaseous
push	object_clause	operates
slot	part_of	jet engine
fan obj complex	part_of	jet engine
cover	part_of	jet engine
wind	location	jet engine
push	neg	not
push	against	air
rotating	agent	garden sprinkler
is	agent	garden sprinkler
garden sprinkler	adjmod	rotating
jet propulsion	of	example
is	object	example
example	adjmod	simple
example	adjmod	practical
reaction	in	rotating
forced	object	jets
water	of	jets
reaction	to	jets
forced	through	nozzles
invented	object	engine
revolve	agent	engine
added	agent	engine
engine	possessed_by	hero
added	object	heat
added	to	equation
invented	around	century ad
century ad	adjmod	first
invented	as	toy
invented	purpose	open
open	object	temple door
showed	agent	invention
hero	has_attribute	invention
showed	object_clause	impart
impart	manner	how
steam	of	momentum
impart	agent	momentum
issuing	agent	steam
a number of	quantity	jets
impart	object	reaction
reaction	adjmod	equal
impart	to	jets
causing	purpose	revolve
causing	object_clause	revolve
reaction	adjmod	opposite
equal	conj	opposite
slot	part_of	jet engine
fan obj complex	part_of	jet engine
cover	part_of	jet engine
wind	location	jet engine
are	agent	jet engine
jet engine	adjmod	most
jet engine	adjmod	modern
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
are	agent	gas turbine
which	refer_clause	gas turbine
are	object	gas turbine
burn	like	heat engine
are	object	heat engine
are	conj	burn
engine	requires	fuel
generator	requires	fuel
turbofan engine	requires	fuel
turbojet	requires	fuel
turboprop engine	requires	fuel
heat engine	requires	fuel
gas turbine	requires	fuel
burn	object	fuel
burn	purpose	convert
engines	refer_link	engines
run	object	engines
back	of	engines
passing	through	engines
engines	has_attribute	energy
convert	object	energy
convert	into	something
something	adjmod	useful
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
components	of	gas turbine
is	for	gas turbine
is	agent	something
something	adjmod	useful
jet	adjmod	moving
moving	manner	fast
fly	agent	jet
exhausted	of	jet
is	object	jet
pressure	conj	jet
propelling	agent	jet
air	of	jet
is	object	jet
gains	agent	aircraft
lift off	agent	aircraft
accelerate	object	aircraft
propelling	object	aircraft
propelling	manner	forward
required	agent	powering
are	agent	powering
propelling	disj	powering
turbine blade	part_of	turbine
bearing	part_of	turbine
vane	part_of	turbine
driving	agent	turbine
powering	object	turbine
driving	object	load
load	disj_member	generator
generator	adjmod	electrical
bearing	part_of	compressor
drives	object	compressor
rotor	part_of	compressor
blades	of	compressor
stator	of	compressor
goes	in	compressor
drives	object	compressor
generator	disj	compressor
load	disj_member	compressor
water jet	for	gas pipeline
propeller	for	gas pipeline
generator	for	gas pipeline
compressor	for	gas pipeline
compressor	disj	propeller
load	disj_member	propeller
ship	has_attribute	propeller
propeller	disj	water jet
load	disj_member	water jet
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
air	location	gas turbine
is	agent	gas turbine
gas turbine	adjmod	simplest
turbine	part_of	turbojet
room	part_of	turbojet
bearing	part_of	turbojet
rotor	part_of	turbojet
fan obj complex	part_of	turbojet
compressor	part_of	turbojet
gas turbine	is_a	turbojet
is	manner	essentially
is	object	tube
tube	adjmod	open
open	at	ends
compressed	object	air
enters	agent	air
passing	agent	air
tube	with	air
passing	manner	continuously
passing	through	it
enters	through	intake
compressed	conj	mixed
engine	requires	fuel
gas turbine	requires	fuel
generator	requires	fuel
turbofan engine	requires	fuel
turbojet	requires	fuel
turboprop engine	requires	fuel
heat engine	requires	fuel
mixed	with	fuel
fuel injector	part_of	combustor
stays	in	combustor
mixed	conj	heated
combustor	in	heated
heated	conj	expanded
drives	agent	turbine
turbine blade	part_of	turbine
bearing	part_of	turbine
vane	part_of	turbine
pressure	through	turbine
expanded	through	turbine
drives	agent	turbine
expanded	through	turbine
expanded	conj	expelled
expelled	manner	finally
expanded	object	combustion gas
expelled	object	combustion gas
choked	object	nozzle
ejected	from	nozzle
exhausted	from	nozzle
expelled	from	nozzle
nozzle	adjmod	rear
expelled	purpose	provide
provide	object	thrust
enters	conj	compressed
drives	via	shaft
shaft	adjmod	connecting
defines	agent	cycle
admit	agent	cycle
combustion	of	cycle
known	object	cycle
combustion	adjmod	continuous
known	as	Brayton cycle
defines	object	volume sequence
volume sequence	adjmod	varying
volume sequence	with	stages
stages	quantity	four
stages	adjmod	distinct
stages	consist of	compression
arrive	agent	combustion
compression	conj	combustion
stages	consist of	combustion
combustion	conj	expansion
stages	consist of	expansion
expansion	conj	exhaust
stages	consist of	exhaust
caused	object	changing
gases	of	pressure
changing	agent	pressure
passing	agent	gases
changing	manner	always
goes	manner	first
stays	agent	pressure
much	as	pressure
compressor	in	pressure
is	agent	pressure
goes	agent	pressure
goes	agent	pressure
goes	manner	up
goes	conj	stays
stays	manner	constant
constant	advmod	almost
stays	conj	goes
goes	manner	then
goes	manner	down
goes	co-occurrence	expanded
is	manner	usually
is	object	much
much	advmod	twice
is	imply	arrive
arrive	manner	so
arrive	at	back
accelerate	agent	pressure
arrive	with	pressure
pressure	adjmod	spare
arrive	purpose	accelerate
accelerate	object	exhaust jet
accelerate	manner	rearwards
changing	in	pressure
caused	by	changes
gases	of	velocity
changes	in	velocity
pass	agent	gases
caused	co-occurrence	pass
pass	through	components
air	conj	combustion
flow	of	laws
state	agent	laws
laws	adjmod	fundamental
flow	adjmod	compressible
state	clause	that
state	object_clause	increase
flowing	cause	increase
that	verb_clause	increase
flowing	manner	when
flows	agent	gas
flowing	agent	gas
flowing	at	speeds
speeds	adjmod	subsonic
flowing	through	space
space	adjmod	convergent
its	refer_link	its
increase	agent	speed
its	has_attribute	speed
its	has_attribute	pressure
decrease	agent	pressure
pressure	adjmod	static
that	verb_clause	decrease
increase	conj	decrease
flowing	agent	fluid
gas	disj	fluid
flows	if	slow
flows	through	duct
duct	adjmod	divergent
its	refer_link	its
its	has_attribute	speed
slow	agent	speed
its	has_attribute	pressure
increase	agent	pressure
increase	agent	pressure
pressure	adjmod	static
slow	conj	increase
flows	agent	fluid
gas	disj	fluid
helps	agent	this
helps	purpose	explain
exhaust jet	of	shape
explain	object	shape
passages	through	stator
of	conj	of
shroud	connected_to	blades
passages	through	blades
stator	conj	blades
turbine blade	part_of	turbine
bearing	part_of	turbine
vane	part_of	turbine
stator	of	turbine
compressor	conj	turbine
states	agent	law
states	clause	that
states	object_clause	increase
changed	if	increase
that	verb_clause	increase
gas	of	temperature
changed	object	temperature
gas	adjmod	confined
changed	neg	not
increase	in	relationship
relationship	adjmod	direct
relationship	to	decrease
decrease	in	volume
describes	agent	law
charles	has_attribute	law
describes	object_clause	cause
allowed	cause	cause
cause	manner	how
allowed	manner	when
allowed	object	gas
gas	under	pressure
pressure	adjmod	constant
allowed	purpose	expand
cause	agent	increase
increase	in	temperature
multiplied	by	increase
cause	object	increase
increase	in	volume
combustor	in	happens
cause	co-occurrence	happens
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
combustor	of	gas turbine
need to	object_clause	changing
changing	agent	pressure
applied	manner	need to
changing	imply	applied
applied	object	laws
applied	manner	together
applied	as	Universal Gas Law
rotor	part_of	compressors
bearing	part_of	compressors
drive	object	compressors
work	possessed_by	turbines
turbine blade	part_of	turbines
bearing	part_of	turbines
vane	part_of	turbines
be	agent	turbines
compressors	conj	turbines
changing	agent	temperature
pressure	conj	temperature
extend	agent	volume
were	agent	volume
air	of	volume
temperature	conj	volume
changing	agent	volume
boyle	conj	charles
thermodynamics	of	laws
show	agent	laws
laws	adjmod	fundamental
show	clause	that
that	verb_clause	are
required	for	pressure ratio
pressure ratio	adjmod	given
extracted	for	expansion ratio
expansion ratio	adjmod	given
required	disj	extracted
are	manner	proportional
proportional	advmod	directly
proportional	to	entry temperature
needs	object_clause	be
be	object	five
needs	manner	therefore
expansion ratio	adjmod	lower
lower	advmod	much
needs	object	expansion ratio
needs	purpose	drive
needs	purpose	do
do	object	work
exhausted	cause	becomes
becomes	agent	difference
becomes	manner	available
becomes	purpose	produce
given	object	thrust
transmitted	agent	thrust
given	object	thrust
produce	object	thrust
exhausted	manner	when
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
greater	for	gas turbine
gas turbine	adjmod	simple
is	object	pressure
is	object	pressure
pinlet	object	pressure
pressure	adjmod	spare
jet	adjmod	higher
suggest	agent	studies
suggest	clause	that
suggest	object_clause	be
that	verb_clause	be
be	agent	core
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
core	of	gas turbine
be	manner	powerful
powerful	advmod	twenty
powerful	as	size piston engine
size piston engine	adjmod	same
admit	agent	this
is	agent	this
cycle	adjmod	continuous
admit	agent	flowpath
cycle	conj	flowpath
flowpath	adjmod	large
flowpath	adjmod	open
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
released	in	gas turbine
flowpath	of	gas turbine
cycle	of	gas turbine
used	object	air
admit	object	air
air	quantity	70
70	adjmod	much
piston engine	adjmod	sized
sized	advmod	equivalently
air	as	piston engine
admit	over	time period
time period	adjmod	same
suggest	clause	that
suggest	object_clause	burnt
that	verb_clause	burnt
engine	requires	fuel
gas turbine	requires	fuel
generator	requires	fuel
turbofan engine	requires	fuel
turbojet	requires	fuel
turboprop engine	requires	fuel
heat engine	requires	fuel
combustion	with	fuel
burnt	object	fuel
fuel	quantity	70
70	advmod	more
is	agent	energy
released	agent	energy
energy	quantity	70
70	adjmod	much
burnt	cause	released
used	manner	however
air	neg	not
used	for	combustion
combustion	adjmod	complete
used	assumption	is
oxygen	of	third
used	object	third
third	quantity	one
passing	agent	oxygen
air	in	oxygen
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
passing	through	gas turbine
used	for	combustion
is	manner	higher
higher	advmod	23
size	of	engine
higher	than	engine
size	adjmod	same
give	object_clause	varies
energy release rate	of	ratio
varies	agent	ratio
varies	with	size
give	agent	comparison
comparison	of	engines
engines	adjmod	large
give	object	energy release rate
energy release rate	adjmod	different
energy release rate	from	comparison
comparison	of	engines
engines	adjmod	small
move	manner	able to
being	manner	able to
move	object	air
air	adjmod	more
running	object	engine
change	through	engine
have	agent	engine
passing	through	engine
approaches	object	engine
passing	through	engine
move	through	engine
move	conj	burn
burn	manner	therefore
engine	requires	fuel
gas turbine	requires	fuel
generator	requires	fuel
turbofan engine	requires	fuel
turbojet	requires	fuel
turboprop engine	requires	fuel
heat engine	requires	fuel
needed	agent	fuel
increases	object	fuel
burn	object	fuel
fuel	adjmod	more
means	clause	that
means	object_clause	be
that	verb_clause	be
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
be	agent	gas turbine
be	manner	powerful
powerful	advmod	very
be	for	size
size	adjmod	given
is	manner	however
slot	part_of	gas turbine
fan obj complex	part_of	gas turbine
cover	part_of	gas turbine
wind	location	gas turbine
needed	agent	gas turbine
is	agent	gas turbine
is	manner	costly
needed	object	materials
materials	adjmod	expensive
needed	purpose	withstand
temperature	adjmod	high
high	advmod	continuously
be	agent	temperature
is	agent	temperature
withstand	object	temperature
fuel injector	part_of	combustor
turbine blade	part_of	turbine
bearing	part_of	turbine
vane	part_of	turbine
combustor	conj	turbine
be	agent	Gas temperature
be	manner	higher
be	in	piston engine
cycle	in	points
points	adjmod	certain
is	manner	overall
temperature	adjmod	average
temperature	in	piston engine
is	manner	lower
lower	advmod	much
used	agent	materials
be	agent	materials
be	imply	used
be	manner	cheaper
be	agent	pressures
Gas temperature	conj	pressures
